# THE VUE INSTANCE

### POINTS TO COVER

    - the root instance

        every vue app starts with a root instance.
        the root has many keys: 

    - the life cycle and life cycle hooks

        every component has a life cycle, 

        life cycle hooks are methods that are called at spefic stages on the component's life cycyle.

## THE ROOT INSTANCE

Every Vue app usually starts with a root instance created by calling its constructor.

```
    <script>
        new Vue({
            //...options
        })
    </script>
```

when the vue instance is constructed it initializes its events and lifecycle.

 ## LIFE CYCLE EVENTS

  There are 6 major life cycle events and each one is fired at a specific point in the construction of an instance. Every component has a lifecycle.

 ### Creation 
    
    It is important to note that creation are fired during server side rendering. You will probably not have access to apis that the dom gives you such as fetch and window. 

 ### Before Create

    this is executed before the component initializes it's reactivity cycle. Data is not reactive at this point. 

 ### Created

    created is called after the component has set all of its reactive properties

 ### beforeMount

    this is fired before the intial render.
 
 ### Mounted
    
    this fired after the initial render when the component has mounted, they are not triggered server side. 

 ### BeforeUpdate

    this allows you to observe state changes before the dom is re-rendered
    
 ### Updated

    this runs after your component's state has changed and the dom has finished its render

 ### BeforeDestroyed

    this is a good time to clean up your component, 

 ### Destroyed

    ... honestly dont know
    


