## DATA

 ## Reactivity

    During the created life cycle event when the component intializes it's reactive properties alot of interesting things happen under the hood.

    Reactive Properties can only be initialized at instantiation, so you cannot add them in later.

    Every component is initialized with a watcher instance. This watcher instance has a list of all of the components "Dependancies". They could it's own data-attributes or perhaps props.

    when ever one of theese depenacies change the watcher is notified and it triggers a re-render.

    This is done by the vue instance using object.defineProperty(), where it sets custom getters and setters on theese attributes. 

    This is very abstract but really usefull to know.

    One thig to be careful of is over writing the data attributes. If you're comming from react this is some what of a strange philosphy because we've been told mutations are bad so we use the spread operator or Object.assign. This can over ride the getters and setters that are created at initialisation which will prevent it from being reactive.

## Data

    Data is basically a components state.

    ```
    ...
        data() {
            return {
                foo: 'foo'
            }
        }
    ...

    ```

    Data must be a function if its not on the root vue instance, by creating a closure you prevent state polution. Because of this data must not be an arrow function () =>. If you're not familiar with ES6 arrow functions bind to the parent context, In vue it means that "THIS" will be undefined. 

## Props

    Props are jsut like in react, excpet the syntax isa bit different

    the props definition can be an object or an array of strings

    the object can be bit more usefull as you can assign validations, default values and types ...

    just like in react props can also be functions.

    ```
        props: {
            height: Number,
            getHeight: {
                type: Function,
                default: () => ,
                required: true
            }
        }
    ```

## Computed 

    computed values are probably the best thing about vue, because they allow you to be very declartive.

    Any reactive value that changes inside of a computed values definition will trigger a recalculation of the outputed value.

    you can also use them to abstract there code into a more readable form, instead of blasting a chain into the template. 

    The values of the computed properties are cached
    so they aren't recomputed when ever the dom updates.

    ```
        computed: {
            fullName() {
                return this.firstName + ' ' + this.lastName;
            }
        }

    ```

## Methods

    Methods are exaclty what they sound like, they can be passed down as props.

## Watches

    ... todo 